yep just like you I saw the minions
Wi-Fi routers on Reddit and went those
can't be real can they but then unlike
you I actually bought them so here they
are Bob and Kevin ready to turn your
Wi-Fi evil how evil you ask Does this
answer your question this piig b b
banana
ban oh there's a thing about me the
truth is there's not a ton of
information about these other than what
the manufacturer publishes is on the box
the Bob version is ax1 1800 so this is
Wi-Fi 6 while the Kevin version is Axe
5400 so WiFi 6E other than that the
Kevin version is triband which it has to
be to be Wi-Fi 6E so it's got 2.4 GHz
support and 5 GHz and 6 GHz each at 160
MHz Channel widths it has a 2 and 1/2
gig Uplink Port which is not necessarily
surprising at this price but is a little
surprising on something that I had
perceived to be pretty much a novelty
item typically they give no thought to
Performance whatsoever but this clearly
does because all we have to do is flip
over one more panel and we see that it
also uses an upgraded Qualcomm processor
versus the more basic uh dual core mys
IIA processor on The Bob version and
it's got more I guess Dam I'm assuming
flash Dam doesn't really mean anything I
think they mean Flash and Dam so uh has
512 megabytes of ram this side of the
box is also where we find out these are
designed by davink a Korean company
that's been around since 2000 and
specializes in business and education
networking uh we've got a QR code for
the installation guide and then that is
about it and online you won't find much
more in the way of information compared
to what they tell you on the box they
are mesh supported you could have one
Kevin for your internet connection and
then I have a whole mesh of Bobs
connected to them uh they have support
for WPA 3 which we actually did a video
over online as Tech tips recently and uh
explained why that's very important and
what's included in the box is apparently
all yeah we're going to need a little
bit of clarification on that so why
don't we go ahead and get oh my God it's
so
cute my very own
Minion it's not very heavy but a
wireless router doesn't necessarily need
to be heavy to indicate its
quality oh my God it's so cute if you
want to connect more than one wired
client you're going to need a network
switch so you've got just the one Wan
port and the one Lan Port there's a mesh
button which I assume is for setup an
LED which I have to assume lights up the
eyes I really really hope it does and
then power in oh my God the shoes are
rubber the attention to detail you
guys it's so cute
cute even the cable's cute look it's a
Minion's cable not really expecting to
find anything extra in Kevin's box but
who knows he does cost
$130 compared to just $69 for Bob he's a
lot heavier which highlights that this
is a completely different product not
just two different versions of the same
thing stuffed into a smaller chassis and
a larger chassis this feels like it's
got some heat sinks in it too oh my God
his hair TFT is rubber too oh it's
probably not the eyes that light up it's
probably this right here okay oh wow
this is a really short ethernet cable um
that's kind of a bummer hey there we go
we got activity LED now well here let's
let's do the setup this is pretty simple
just scan this QR code to connect to it
and then scan a second QR code well the
easy setup kind of broke down here well
we got there it turns out that whatever
Apple's doing with their default DNS
settings and Safari on the iPhone it
just doesn't work for this it works just
fine on Android and it works just fine
on a desktop or laptop so let's go ahead
and check out this control panel I love
that the default admin username is Bob
come on how perfect is that like they
really did they really did put in the
work on this one guys
wait what if you
reconfigure SSID
Z SSID 1 just shows up so now I've got
Kevin sucks and I've got bobor one how
do I turn how do I turn that one off oh
yeah it's not secured what is going on
right now oh I should tell the people
about our sponsor if you're looking for
a way to quickly take care of your bits
and Bobs ha manscaped is there for you
their performance package 5.0 Ultra
includes the lawnmower 5.0 Ultra so you
can mow your lawn as well as the weed
whacker 2.0 for your ears and nose so it
doesn't look like a Krakens trying to
escape from in there you'll even get
their crop Soother and crop preserver
which will keep you smelling fresh even
in your nether regions elevate your
self-care game with manscaped by
checking out the performance package 5.0
Ultra over at manscaped.com SL circuit
and just make sure that you use code
circuit to get 20% off oh and free
shipping was this enabled box here
before no that enable and disable thing
is not here and this Supply button that
is here in the easy setup is not here in
the Wi-Fi settings one right guys tell
me tell me what's happening right
now does that
apply the little paper airplane is apply
wouldn't recommend using the Easy Wi-Fi
setup there were a couple of concerns we
saw raised about the device online
someone said that it doesn't support
pppe so if you need that then I guess
the minion
router uh is not for you and more
importantly a Reddit user pointed out
that there's a vulnerability where the
Wi-Fi passphrase is passed to the U
console in plain text however it should
be noted that someone would need
physical access to the device in order
to take advantage of that exploit so
once someone's got physical access
you're pwned anyway enough chitchat
though it's time for the moment you've
all been waiting for is it actually a
functioning Wi-Fi router it's a gigabit
connection running into it half half a
megabit wow uploads even better 500
megabit download 700 up very reasonable
but can Kevin do better I'm not going to
bother configuring everything on this
one and guys I'm sure there's things we
could do to tune things a little bit
better but we want to see how these are
going to perform out of the box because
realistically come on that is how most
people buying a novelty
router like this are going to use it all
right not bad you can see our ISP is
delivering a little bit more than
gigabit on this connection unfortunately
UBC is really not giving us good enough
consistency in our downloads to really
draw any kind of reasonable conclusion
let's move the test inconsistency isn't
that big of a deal though because under
normal circumstances you're not going to
be right next to your router anyway and
the bottom L is going to be you know
what kind of connection can you get to
it through a wall or whatever so we're
at one wall right now let's see how
we're doing here
oh yeah I don't think the University of
British Columbia is the problem here
wow okay so then I just go through this
one door oh wow this is with no wall
guys look the set is right there it's
like right there this is bizarre
guys
Kevin
Kevin are you okay it probably switched
over to 2.4 when I went on the other
side of the door and then just didn't
grab 5 GHz or 6 GHz again ooh oh that's
not good oh man I had not intended to go
into Kevin's control panel but I'm going
to have to do that so here's what we're
going to do you're in apartment and you
just don't need 2.4 GHz and we're just
going to turn 2.4 off so the question
we're trying to answer here is can you
buy one of these for your mom or is she
going to call you complaining the second
she walks you know 30 ft away from it or
goes into another room
if you understand the compromise you're
making that 2.4 GHz isn't going to work
let's go let's go again back to the
other side of the door we go okay moving
around doesn't seem to be good for it
seriously surprisingly this fares much
better so the problem is not
necessarily the wall or the distance I'm
probably about the same distance from
Kevin as I was before the issue seems to
be the pickup pattern of the the antenna
so if you live in like a row home you
know like a three level but like small
building man
Perfect all right we're
back all right yeah like we can really
see it here so the problems are TW full
one switching between different bands is
handled extremely poorly now that could
potentially be um exacer ated by the
devices own Tendencies but whoever's
fault it is it's not a good experience
with the minions routers I'm assuming
Bob is no better than Kevin and then
problem number two is that the pickup
pattern on this antenna is I don't know
what word to use to describe it other
than
inexcusable um it worked great upstairs
so it's not that it's completely unable
to punch through walls it's that the
pickup pattern is really strong
vertically and and yeah yeah it's all
it's it's a it's a Cenna sticking out of
the top of this thing and really poor
horizontally so at this point in time I
can't say that I can recommend the
minions routers um for anything other
than cuteness Factor so if you're in an
extremely small space and you just want
a cute little Wi-Fi access point then
they're great and if you want
performance then you should probably
look elsewhere like to your ISP provided
access point compared to these
things
subscribe to Short
Circuit